---
title: "SpiDR: A Reconfigurable Digital Compute-in-Memory Spiking Neural Network Accelerator for Event-based Perception"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/spidr
excerpt: 'This paper proposes a digital compute in memory accelerator for SNNs'
date: 2024-07-20
venue: 'under review'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2411.02854'
# citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---

Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs), with their inherent recurrence, offer an efficient method for processing the asynchronous temporal data generated by Dynamic Vision Sensors (DVS), making them well-suited for event-based vision applications. However, existing SNN accelerators suffer from limitations in adaptability to diverse neuron models, bit precisions and network sizes, inefficient membrane potential (Vmem) handling, and limited sparse optimizations. In response to these challenges, we propose a scalable and reconfigurable digital compute-inmemory (CIM) SNN accelerator SpiDR with a set of key features: 1) It uses in-memory computations and reconfigurable operating modes to minimize data movement associated with weight and Vmem data structures while efficiently adapting to different workloads. 2) It supports multiple weight/Vmem bit precision values, enabling a trade-off between accuracy and energy efficiency and enhancing adaptability to diverse application demands. 3) A zero-skipping mechanism for sparse inputs significantly reduces energy usage by leveraging the inherent sparsity of spikes without introducing high overheads for low sparsity. 4) Finally, the asynchronous handshaking mechanism maintains the computational efficiency of the pipeline for variable execution times of different computation units. We fabricated SpiDR in 65 nm Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) low-power (LP) technology. It demonstrates competitive performance (scaled to the same technology node) to other digital SNN accelerators proposed in the recent literature and supports advanced reconfigurability. It achieves up to 5 TOPS/W energy efficiency at 95% input sparsity with 4-bit weights and 7-bit Vmem precision.